But these are what I would consider to be full-stack users of geographic information systems.
They create data, they analyze data, they integrate GIS data or location data with the business systems that run those groups,
and they communicate with the public.
So full-stack, they use the soup-to-nuts capabilities of a GIS technology.
So is this approach and is this technology relevant in government?
I'd say yes, we have evidence that it is.
This is a map of the United States, obviously.
The red dots represent the local governments that are using GIS as a core business system.
It's literally tens of thousands of organizations.
They range from large cities like Barcelona, like Madrid, like Singapore, like New York City,
all the way down to very small municipalities.
But it's proof that location and GIS is a core business system in government
and is essential for media.
There are four major areas that we see GIS really contributing to in government.
First and foremost, and I'm going to give you an example of one in just a few minutes that cover an example of my community, where I live,
how they use GIS for one specific thing that covers all of these.
But the first area is planning and engineering.
So the whole design of a community and how your community needs to be designed and how location can play a role in that.
The second is around operational efficiency.
So every government wants to provide good services to their citizens,
both their citizens and their internal constituents.
And location and spatial analytics can help drive that.
Improving services in terms of efficiency, making sure that we're providing services to the right people,
just making sure the very purpose of government is achieved.
The third, I would go into this lower left-hand quadrant, is the ability to use spatial data
to help make informed decisions or data-driven decisions.
Location is an essential component.
It's an essential component to that process.
I would say it's a favored framework for understanding data, understanding your communities,
and as a result, being able to make really effective decisions in your organization.
It's like no other technology that actually exists.
I often kid and say, you know, I've been in this business for 30 years,
and I've never seen a group of government officials huddled around a spreadsheet.
Not once.
But I see them huddled around the maps, and I see them looking at dashboards.
And that, to me, is really important.
It's proof in the pudding that there's something special about the use of geographic capabilities.
And the last component is around civic inclusion.
And I would use that as sort of a broad term, because I would say it's civic inclusion,
but it's also inclusion or collaboration within organizations as well.
There's something about using the geographic component that drives collaboration.
There's a whole additional presentation that can be given on why this is the case.
But there's something about using a map.
Using a location reference to look at data that just captivates people.
It helps identify ownership within a government.
Somebody owns everything.
If you have a school that's not performing well, someone's responsible.
If you have maintenance that's not being performed in a certain area, someone is responsible.
If you have crime in a certain area, there's someone that's responsible.
There's someone who's interested deeply in those characteristics or conditions in a given area.
And just by having that location component, it drives engagement.
On the civic side, we've heard for years the importance of communicating and collaborating with the public.
Governments are trying to do this all the time.
And one of the most common things that I hear from governments are,
we've invested a lot of time and energy in tools to engage the public,
and we just don't have the level of engagement that we're looking for.
We know from our experience in working with our customers
that where there's a location component in those engagement solutions,
there's an increased level of engagement.
So why is that?
People are interested in crime, schools, capital improvement projects,
whatever the subject may be.
But they're really interested in how their government and their community is performing
in relation to where they live and where they spend their time.
And that's why the location piece is so important there.
So what do we know?
Number one, we know that the way that communities are designed and managed matters.
In just a minute, I'm going to share with you one aspect of the community that I live in.
I can attest to this fact, number one.
The services that you provide, the amenities that are maintained,
they actually can change the behavior of the citizens in a community.
There is absolutely no doubt about it.
So putting the time and effort into planning and organizing and managing your community
has a direct impact on the health and viability of that community.
Number two, governments are challenged today in ways that they've never been challenged before.
I would call them wicked problems.
It could be everything from the cost of living, housing shortages, homelessness, crime, you name it.
There are significant challenges that need to be faced today.
So if you think that a community needs to be designed and managed properly,
when you think about the challenges that exist today,
it just reinforces the need for the technology that you're seeing at this event
and the use of a technology like GIS to actually help governments achieve what they're trying to achieve.
They have to use technology.
They have to be creative at a human level.
Apply human expertise to creating solutions to help cultivate and maintain really healthy communities.
The last thing we know is that location is a key component to this whole entire process.
You know, I spent the last couple of days visiting customers in this area.
And when you walk around this convention center,
you'll see that there's maps and visualizations that use geography in just about every single booth.
It is a core component to all information technology and all components of a smart city,
or what we call a smart community.
So location is central.
I don't really think you can exist without it.
So let me tell you a little story about where I live.
This is a simple example of how location can be powerful and how it's used by a government.
I live in Boulder, Colorado.
It's a city of about 100,000 people.
It's a unique community.
We have a tremendous amount of open space.
So there's trails, there's a lot of outdoor activities, parks.
We have a central business district.
It's a very strictly planned community where there's a central density.
We have commercial and residential homes.
And then as you get outside, it's more open space.
There's a series of amenities that I particularly take part in.
We have an incredible...
For the United States, we have an incredible cycling infrastructure
for bicycle commuters and recreation.
So we have over 300 miles of dedicated bike lane.
It's sort of broken out.
I broke them out over here.
There's 96 miles of bike lane
that are on the road.
There's 50 miles of bike paths, dedicated bike paths.
There's no cars on it at all.
It's like it's going to a highway system.
And then 84 miles of multi-use path.
You often don't have to cross a road on a bike.
There's 80 underpasses in the city that go under busy intersections.
I'm pointing out these details for a reason
because the way cities are managed changes behavior.
I've lived other places.
I ride my bike 13 miles to work every day.
And the reason why I do it is because I never have to get on a road.
So if you want to get cars off the road,
you want to create a healthy community,
it all starts with design and engineering.
You build the infrastructure to support it.
This is a community that's done that.
So what do you think...
We have an active citizenry that takes advantage of this resource.
So what would you suspect would be a major component of our...
Like a priority that our community would have?
It would be bicycle safety.
And so part of being a smart community, part of being a smart city,
is not just the technology that you use,
but it's also the people that work in that organization
and their ability to understand what the priorities of their community are,
leverage technology to help them make solid decisions
that reference those priorities and actually get things done.
That's what makes you a smart community.
You can wire up as many sensors as you want.
You can take as many data streams as you want.
You can automate whatever processes you want.
But unless you can make this connection between technology
and actual work that has to be done to improve your community,
I don't think you're getting very far.
So they've identified this as a priority.
And what they've done here is first use a geographic information system
to analyze crash and accident data across the city.
And they went through a process of collecting all the accident data.
They break it down every way that you can imagine,
including where there are pedestrian and cycling incidents.
You can see them over here on the left.
From this, they created hotspot analysis
to understand which roadways were the most dangerous of cyclists in this case.
They used this information to populate, if you've heard of Vision Zero,
it's an initiative to reduce pedestrian deaths down to zero.
It doesn't just focus on cycling.
It focuses on all pedestrian incidents and deaths.
But of course, there's a cycling component to the whole thing.
So the GIS analysis went into creating
their Vision Zero report,
which breaks down where the pedestrian death and accident
sort of situation in the community,
and then helping them prioritize where they actually can make improvements.
And so then as a citizen, I can review that report,
but I can also go in and see where they plan capital improvement projects
based on that data.
So it's not just going in and saying, you know,
you want to add bike lanes,
but where should they improve the safety of bike lanes?
Where is it most important?
And they've identified nine major projects.
There's one that's exceptionally important to me.
So now we're getting back to why does it drive citizen engagement?
Well, I live right over here.
And this road on the baseline happens to be
a common component of the bikeways that I use all the time.
And guess what?
It is not safe.
It has not been safe.
There's a bike lane, but it's not safe.
So I have for many years wondered,
what are we going to do to improve the safety on this road segment?
Then there comes the GIS analysis on this road baseline
where they do all the engineering work and design.
What amenities exist there?
What do we need to add?
It's sort of a bad map of that,
but they've done the analysis of like,
what can we do to improve this scenario?
All of this is available publicly to the citizens.
So if you want to find any of this information,
just go to the website,
look for capital improvement projects.
We can walk you through this.
This is an image.
I didn't take this.
I didn't create this.
This becomes a visualization into that project.
These are the existing bike lanes.
You can see there's no barrier.
It looks like there's a nice distance there,
but trust me,
when you're riding on it,
especially in the snow,
that's not enough.
This is what the road looks like.
They then have a visualization
where they can show you the improvements
they're going to make.
And what's not on this slide
that I would want to communicate is
the first phase of the project,
on this bike lane,
they put those flexible reflector things,
and that seemed like it was great.
About two weeks after they were installed,
you see whole swaths of them
knocked over by cars.
Not a good...
It doesn't feel the same.
It's not a good sense of comfort.
What's available on the website
that you could look at would be...
What are the future enhancements?
The future enhancements would be solid barriers
that they would have.
So, of course, I'm like,
okay, it's a possible future enhancement.
Is that ever going to happen?
Will it ever happen?
Well, I took this photograph last week.
They've added the concrete barriers
on the side of the road.
That's a much safer environment.
But as a citizen, I was able to say,
here's what my government did.
They identified the challenge or the problem
that was a priority for the citizens.
They did actual analytic work using a GIS
to understand where they could improve on that problem.
They did the analysis.
They created a report.
They incorporated it into their capital improvement plan
and their process,
and they executed against it.
And all of it's available for me as a citizen
to watch and track.
That, to me, is a smart...
an example of a smart community.
Now, if you ride a lot of bikes,
and this is not a joke, but it's sort of funny,
one of the things you get worried about is bicycle theft.
Well, they also have a dashboard
that tracks the amount of bicycle theft.
I'll just tell you the thing that's interesting
about this to me is this number.
It just means that you don't want your bike to get stolen.
So we have a map of the bikes,
but we're not recovering many of them.
That's just the fact of the day.
But we're tracking all of this for cyclists.
So I'll close with a couple slides.
What I would get to and sort of a message
or an advice I would get is
if what I said is true,
location is important,
governments that use GIS and location
as a way to help make their communities smarter
are doing well.
It's a valuable technology.
If that's the case,
then I would suggest that all governments
should embrace geographic information systems.
And they can embrace it across their organization,
across the entire enterprise.
And to do that effectively,
you really need to have a geospatial strategy.
There's a process that you can go through,
and there's many different processes,
so I won't advocate one or the other.
But have a process to go through,
create a geospatial strategy
where you understand the data that you need,
and most importantly,
get to the end of this process
where you understand the business solutions
that have the greatest impact on your organization.
That's where you want to go to.
And then leverage the tools
that are appropriate to you
to actually execute that plan.
One of the things that we've done as an organization
is we've identified over the past 50 years
the common work that governments use
our technology to support.
So if you go into an engineering department
or a transportation department,
there are common GIS applications
everywhere you go.
I saw them represented this week in Madrid
and in Barcelona.
It's the same type of solutions.
We have gone through and developed
a whole collection of over 200 ArcGIS solutions
that align to very specific domains.
So if you're a city or a county
or a state agency,
you can go onto the ArcGIS solution site,
peruse the different types of GIS applications
and have free access to the applications
and the code.
So that we open source the actual code
so that you can actually enhance if you want to
or extend or localize in this case
any of these applications.
These solutions and this gallery of solutions
also can provide you with a roadmap
for what your GIS implementation
in your organization can be.
It will lay out to you the common solutions
in public works, in police, in emergency management.
Whatever department it is that you're in,
it will lay out the common
cases for your organization.
So you can leverage these solutions,
buy them from a third party partner
or something similar,
a similar solution.
Or if you have the resources,
you can use our developer tools
to create them yourself.
But there's over 200 of these
available on the ArcGIS solution site.
So again, what we know,
the way communities are designed matters.
It's not all about technology.
Technology is an enabler
to help us design communities.
That's very important.
Number two,
it's not getting easier to do this.
Because it's not getting easier to do this,
we need to be creative.
And again, I harp on this,
but it's not just technology,
it's technology plus people
to get creative and actually solve problems.
And third,
location is a central component
to that process.
Thank you very much.
I'm around.
We have our booth back here.
I welcome you to come by our booth
and talk to myself
or any of the other heads.
